 CONTRACT  LAW 
 
This section discusses the basics of  contract law, and addresses a few things to consider before 
signing a contract. 
 
REQUIREMENTS FOR A CONTRACT  
A valid contract is a legally bi nding agreement and is enforceable in court by and against the 
contracting parties.  In order for a contract to be  valid, there must be an offer, an acceptance of 
the offer, an exchange between the parties of some thing of value, and an agreement to the terms. 
 Under California law, anyone is cap able of entering into a contra ct, except for persons deprived 
of civil rights ( e.g., prisoners) and persons of unsound mi nd.  A party is considered “of unsound 
mind” if he or she is intoxicated or is suffering fr om a mental illness that prevents the party from 
understanding what he or she is doing.  Minors (persons under 18) are with some exceptions  permitted to enter into a contract in the 
same manner as adults.  However, contracts can not always be enforced against minors by the 
other party or parties.  As a result, it is permissi ble for someone to refuse to enter into a contract 
with a minor.  
O
RAL CONTRACTS  
Contracts that are made orally are enforceable under certain circumstances, but are problematic 
even where permissible.  If the parties to the contract remember the agreement differently, it can 
be difficult if not impossible for a party to prove what the actual agreement was.  Some types of 
contracts can never be made ora lly, including contracts lasting mo re than one year, contracts for 
the sale of goods worth more than $500, contracts for the purchase and sale of real property, and 
contracts to be co-signed.  
B
EFORE YOU SIGN A CONTRACT  
Read it, read it, READ IT!  You should read a c ontract as many times as required for you to be 
certain that you understand it.  Do not sign a cont ract without first unders tanding its contents and 
consequences.  You may want to request that an attorney review  a contract with you before you 
sign it, especially if the rights and responsibilities of the partie s to the agreement are not clear to 
you.    You should not sign a contract that has blank spaces  left to be filled.  Some contracts are forms 
that look like a worksheet, with blank spaces for term s relating to quantity, price, or other details.  
Do not sign a contract unless all sp aces have been fully completed. 
 You should always keep a copy of any contract th at you sign.  This is the best way for you to 
provide evidence of its existence and terms.  
 
  CANCELING A CONTRACT  
Most contracts are legally bi nding.  You should assume that you will be bound by the contract 
and that you will not be able to simply “get out of it.”    There are some extraordinary circumstances in wh ich it may be possible to cancel a contract.  
Some examples of contracts that may be cancell ed include those that involve fraud or that 
require someone to do something illegal.  
Getting Help  
 
General Legal  
Student Legal Services, 858.534.4374 or http://sls.ucsd.edu
 